Now it's switched over.
This is wonderful.
It's a magnet.
Thank you so much.
Where are the tapestries from, from another museum?
from Florence and for the Palazzo Pitti, because in Palazzo Pitti you have a office for all things of the Medici and then Lorena family.
So these are Medici?
Yes, yes.
This is in Cunapoli.
This is in Cunapoli, printed.
These are printed books out.
Look at that, there's a book, a book on the tapestry.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's wonderful.
What is, who is that figure?
The Time.
Oh, that's Time, the book.
Father Time.
La Clessidra.
And the book.
The night with a little bird on the night.
And the night.
And the symbolism is time on top of the book.
Time is passing.
But why the book?
Because the book is for always.
Ah, wonderful.
No, it's so wonderful because, yes, the book we have in the library,
that he has opened in the 16th century, and it is always here.
The time has passed, but not the books.
The books are steady.
It's Father's time and the hour ones... Are a system for... No, not proprio, I would say, the measure.
The measure?
because the books give the help to see the time who passed.
I love it.
Because the books help to see the history, who passed, because you have the history from the books.
The history before the history is before the writing.
That can almost be the jacket illustration.
When the new cathedral has been constructed,
It was necessary.
to make the books for the mass, the priors, but very, very beautiful.
Beautiful like the cathedral that was the most beautiful.
And then commissioned by
The most important artist has worked here with artists.
They have to be so big because the people are singing from it.
So it's one book so they can all read the music.
That's why it's so big.
The name of the desk for the choral is Badalone.
Oh, nice.
B-A-D-L-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-D-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-O-N-E-S-B-A-L-
that it is always in the cathedral, in the museum of the cathedral you have an example of Badalone and also in Santa Croce the Church of the British can hold this influence.
Look at this.
In the catalogue you have a photo of because this is the river.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry, that's horrible.
Because the tree
were on the Badalone, and then he has been saved by the Badalone.
This was here in Florence?
This was the flood here in Florence?
No, no, yes, in Florence and in the cathedral, in the library of the cathedral.
Twenty corals are being destroyed, but not three, and these, because the trees were in the Badalone, on the Badalone.
The Badalone saved them, yes, okay.
Badalone saved them.
What a shame to survive so long.
They lasted so many years to be destructed so recently.
Yes, 30 years, but now they are being restored.
This is wonderful.
This is very beautiful because it is the end of the day, of course.
The wives here and the streets.
Thank you very much.
Look at that.
Look at that illumination.
This is, what year is this?
1445.
So this is just five years before the invention of type.
This is a manuscript too.
It's just pre-printing before the invention of type just by about five years.
It's wonderful.
David pointed out this one.
Do you actually see the street in Florence?
Do you see it outside the door?
You're kidding.
That's what that is?
Yes, that's what she said.
You were saying this is a street?
Yes.
Actually a street in Florence that they... No, no, no.
It is like.
Like?
Yes, yes.
For example, you have there...
the little part, it is a street of Florence, the Via dei Leoni.
This is the Via dei Leoni.
You have the lions and then you have the little
This is an example of this connection between religious lives and civil lives, political and economic.
Because the lion is the marzocco, the symbol of Firenze.
Did you see the marzocco di Donatello?
No.
Because the Marzocco, you have a most famous statue by Donatello, it is the Marzocco, the lion, sits with the hands of Lawrence.
And this is a symbol of...
That's the symbol of Lorenz.
And the bulls.
The symbol of the opera del Duomo, the society for the cathedral.
in a miniature of an event so important as the baptism of Christ by Giovanni Battista.
And this is the representation of the Christ with Saint John, and then you have the Jerusalem of the sky, the paradise, but it is also the Florence, the representation of Florence.
Yes, and Saint John was now, he is the son of Florence.
Florence, the patron saint of Florence?
Yes, the saint who gave... the patron saint of Florence.
The patron saint of Florence.
Was this an active center for illuminators in Florence?
Were there a lot of illuminators and calligraphers in Scriptoria here in Florence?
No.
Ah, see, the books were here.
Now it is...
Some of them here, but the most in the monasteries in Italy, and then many of the books of the collection are collected by Lawrence the Magnificent, but by in Greece.
They come in the Middle East, Palestine.
So he went out and bought them?
Yes.
But that one is flooring.
Wow, that was great.
Yes, that's wonderful.
Thanks for holding this.
Oh, the miniatures, yes.
Because you have here two, the two cathedrals of Florence.
This is San Pietro Maggiore Church of Florence.
But now it is not, it has been discussed in the 18th century.
This is the church where has been the San Zanobi's miracles.
Miracles.
The baby says go down the windows and he has not a bed for Santa Nobita contamination.
Is it the second church?
Yes, they say.
Cathedral Santa Maria del Fiore.
They give us the date of the manuscript.
Oh, it's dated.
It is about 1331.
Yes, this is the manuscript.
And you can see that by the people.
Yes, it's possible with these two.
With the Santana, the miracles, and then with the history of... Of the people.
Santa Maria del Fiore, the new... The new cathedral.
Oh, so that's the evidence from the picture that you can get it.
Thank you.
Does that painting look 600 years old to you?
Does it have in the catalogue another miniature where we can see another
You can make comparisons.
By the evidence in the picture.
That's called internal evidence.
That's the essence of bibliography.
How about the people coming here?
This is great.
I think I should write a catalog of this exhibition, yes.
What is the content here?
Is this again a literature?
A lectionary.
I can understand some of the Italian.
It's very good.
Yeah.
This is wonderful.
Ah, wonderful.
Is it by a friend from France?
Mm-hmm.
Most of the stuff, most of the material is Italian of course.
Look at how fine the handwriting is here, how very tightly condensed it is.
It is not very beautiful to write on the book.
No, but those are reader's notes.
But those are the reader's annotations probably, is that what she's saying?
No, this is the notes, the commentary to the text of the person who had the books.
Yes, okay.
That's the commentary of the reader.
No, not always.
Hello.
Because we are, the Laurentiana is the most important library in the world for the quality of this collection of manuscripts.
Because we have an important collection for the Father of the Church, for example.
but also for the poetry and for the original autograph by Petrarcha, Bocaccia.
But at the age of the open it is not so important and you have only two basic on Petrarcha and Bocaccia.
But now we have the original, the autographs.
You have the Holocaust?
Yes, by Petrarcha and Bocaccia.
There's a holographic chair that takes back a book, aren't you?
That's where the books were.
These are the catalogs for those books.
Yes, yes, for the father of the church in Letting Hill, for the idea of the quote,
of the number.
Then you have the historian, the philosopher, and you have many cicerone.
And you said two desks for Pitchcock and Pitchcock.
Yes, yes.
For example, another thinking process is this.
You have only two desks for the astronomians in Greek and Latin, but with four, it is not now, but there were four, the name is Sfere Armillani,
The stair for the movement of the planet.
The motion of the planet.
It's the whole thing inside.
It is forbidden to employ the fire or candles to see the books.
And then you have only the original natural life.
But now we have not the original light because we have five windows closed.
So when they read here, the light just came from here?
No, from here, because it is the second original thing in this library.
It is that it is not to the south, but it is east.
An east-west, eastern explosion.
Yes, but now we have not the original light because of five closed windows in the 19th century, and then because the Basilic has built a new building there on the line.
And then we have not the original soft yellow light.
So all the light was outside, natural, no candles?
No, no, no.
It is for the candle.
So when was the reading?
Just for a few hours during the day?
Yeah, from March, April or February to September, you have a good light.
A good light to read.
How was the room for circulation?
Did the books hold up very well over the years?
There was no humidity that hurt the books?
No, no, no.
This is the last control in September.
They said it is very perfect for the humidity.
You have there for the temperature.
Excuse me.
Now you have here 16.
for temperature and five, six for the humidity.
And this is the top for the collection of the books here and then also downstairs.
But this is constructed like this for the life and then also for the humidity.
And how many desks do you think will be hard enough?
88.
88 desks.
Desks.
But two desks have been constructed in 19th centuries.
To remove.
Yes.
To get into that room?
So there were 90, actually.
There were originally 90?
No, no, no.
The original in the 19th century is open.
Yes.
I've been distracted and now we have, we don't know where.
But you have 88 now.
88 now, yes.
Can't talk.
The direction of the library.
This is a map of Florence?
No, of Paris.
Of Paris.
I was going to say, that doesn't look like the Arno River.
That's the, that's the scene.
That's a very old map.
I don't know, I don't know if it's the region, but I think, you know what I said?
Balle.
That's it.